We're going to give you guys a little bit
of detail about Apple Remote Desktop and
I'm going to just do a brief intro.
I'm the manager of the management and
collaboration group which includes ARD.
And in case you don't already know,
ARD 3 is out.
We've been working on this for a long
time and it's great to have it out there,
but it also, it being out there,
gives us an opportunity at WWDC to
kind of take a little different angle
on it in terms of a presentation.
So, just a little bit of a rah-rah,
a little bit of cheerleading about ARD,
some quotes about how it's being
received out there in the market.
This is a gentleman who's really,
really happy that we spent a lot
of time improving the file copy.
It's a simple little,
it's a simple little,
it's not a simple little task,
but it's something that people do a lot,
copying bits from A to B.
We spent a lot of time on that
and this guy seems to like it.
Then we've got a very different customer,
Pulitzer Prize winning photographer,
Vincent something last name.
And again, he's sitting here using the
remote access functionality.
And what I like about these two
quotes is that it shows something
about ARD that we really serve
a lot of different customers.
Obviously an IT product,
but a lot of different customers.
different people get a lot of
different value out of the product.
So, I'm going to give you guys a little
brief history of the product.
And then we're going to get
into the real meat of the
presentation with Mark Whitemore,
the ARD engineering manager.
This is going to be different because
what we're going to do is we're going to
get really under the hood of the product
and show you how it all fits together.
ARD 3 introduces the task server
concept and that makes yet
another process that's running as
part of the whole ARD ecosystem.
And we wanted to give you really good
details about how that all works.
The other thing is, is we get a lot of,
Creative feedback about how
ARD is being used out there.
And I think we got a lot of
good advice and ideas about
how you can use it even better.
And we've got demos all over the place.
So we're going to show
you how we're using it,
some fun ones and some great examples
of how you can use ARD right.
So I'm not going to go into all the
features that we've been doing since
I got here about four years ago,
but obviously we've done a lot of
releases of ARD over the past four years.
What I want you to look
at is sort of that curve,
the innovation curve there.
We started with the first release
just getting it running under
Mac OS X a bunch of years ago,
and then we started adding more features,
and we started adding more features.
And then with ARD 3,
Apple Remote Desktop 3,
we added a bunch more features,
the task server, remote drag and drop,
automator support.
Obviously,
we're done with the current release,
but as we get to Q&A here at the end,
I'm really interested
to hear your feedback,
how you like it,
what you'd like to see in
future releases as well,
because we're going to keep
on pushing this product.
We're going to keep on adding
more great features to it.
When you think about the product,
I'm fond of calling
ARD a Swiss Army knife.
When you compare us to the
different products out there in
terms of these five or six buckets,
you are often comparing to
individual products out there.
ARD is an all-in-one solution.
It's a software distribution
solution via the install package,
the copy items tasks.
It's the asset management
via the dizzying array of
different reporting tools,
reports that we have in there.
It's the remote administration,
the remote assistance,
the feature that everyone can see
where we allow admins and IT types,
labs, lab IT types,
teachers to help via remotely
observing and controlling machines.
It's automation.
With the automated support that
you have in Apple Remote Desktop 3,
we've given you a tool
to build more tools.
And that's one of the things
I like about the product.
Tools like Send Unix that really allow
you to extend the functionality to
adapt it to how you want to use it.
And again, the setup.
How you actually go and use the product,
configure the product to get it
working in large deployments.
I'd encourage you if you have more
questions to go to the site and also
give us great feedback at the end.
But with that,
I'd like to bring Mark Whitemore
up who's going to give us some
of the in-depth inside what's
going on inside of ARD slides.
Mark?
Thank you, Michael.
Good morning.
Thanks for coming.
Let's get started.
Let's get under the hood of
Apple Remote Desktop here.
So I'm going to talk about the
processes that make up Remote Desktop,
talk about what each
of these processes do.
We're going to take a
look at the preferences.
This is going to be interesting for
those of you who are creating system
images and deploying them because you
might be wanting to tweak some stuff
after you get your image deployed.
I'm going to talk about how
these processes communicate with
one another so you know what
UDP TCP ports you need to be aware of.
We're going to talk a little bit
about network design because some
people have issues with how their
network is configured and how
Remote Desktop behaves on their network.
And so we're going to take a look
at that and try to hopefully give
you guys some ideas of how you
can resolve any issues you have.
And then lastly,
we'll do a little demo with scanners,
task server, and reporting so that
when you guys use it,
you can build it more successful
in actually using those features.
First, let's talk a little bit about
Apple Remote Desktop technology so that
for those of you who are maybe not as
familiar with others for the program,
we'll all be on the same page as
far as what I'm talking about here.
So clients,
these are the machines that you're
actually managing with Remote Desktop and
they're the ones you've got deployed
throughout your organization.
The administrator console is the
program that you have RemoteDesktop.app
running on and the machine from which
you're controlling all these machines.
And their task server is a lot like
an administrator but it doesn't
run the Remote Desktop.app program.
On the task server,
it requires a license just like the
administrator but this is the machine
to which you can delegate tasks that
you've set up on your administrator
console like install package.
So your administrator console can,
you can do something else
instead of hanging around waiting
for your task to complete.
So this is how they all tie together.
Basically,
everything kind of communicates
with everything else.
You've got your administrator
talks to your task server,
your task server talks to your client,
and your administrator
talks to your client.
We're going to get into more detail
though about exactly what communication
is going on here in just a moment.
So, let's talk about processes.
What are the processes that are
running on each type of computer
and what are these processes doing?
Because what you're going to see
is that some of the process runs
on each different type of computer,
the administrator, the clients,
the task server,
but they serve very different
roles on each of these machines.
So on the client, we have ARD Helper.
This is what kind of
kicks the whole thing off.
In system preferences and sharing,
when you turn on Remote Desktop,
you're actually enabling
the helper to start up.
And when the helper starts up,
when the machine starts up,
that kicks off the ARD agent.
The ARD agent on the client
machine is responsible for
actually performing the task.
It's the workhorse for Remote Desktop.
You do a send Unix command to a client.
This is the process that's
actually running and executing
it and sending the response back
to an agent on the administrator.
We'll get to that in a second.
Apple VNC Server on a client.
This is a separate process that
when you do a control screen,
is grabbing the screen contents
and sending it back to the admin.
And this gets launched
by ARD agent startup.
On the administrator console, of course,
the app that you are all familiar
with is Apple Remote Desktop.app.
This is the main GUI console.
On the administrator side,
if you don't have access turned on,
what gets the agent launched
is Remote Desktop itself.
So when you launch that,
the agent isn't already running.
If you don't have access turned on,
it kicks up the agent.
Now, on the administrator console,
the agent has a slightly different
role than it does on a client machine.
It still does all the same
things it does on the client,
but in addition to that,
it acts as a conduit
for Remote Desktop.app.
So when I do that send unix command,
it isn't the admin app that's
directly communicating over
the network to the client.
It's actually going through the agent,
and the agent is communicating
to a similar agent on a
client machine and saying,
here's the send unix command,
please perform this,
and then it sends the status back.
Now,
the Apple VNC server on the admin machine
also has a slightly different role.
Whereas on a client,
it's grabbing the screen changes
and sending them back to the admin.
When you do a share screen on the admin,
the VNC server there takes the admin,
the screen contents,
and sends them out to all the clients.
On the task server,
so on the task server ARD Agent does
the same thing that it does on a client,
but in addition to that,
it handles all the responsibilities
of the task server.
It handles the delegated
tasks like install package.
It stores all the files that are
part of the install package task.
It communicates with all the clients
and distributes the files out.
It accumulates the results and
sends them back to the administrator
when the administrator is online.
RMDB, that is our database in which we
store all the system information,
application usage,
and user reporting information.
It's a SQL database.
It's PostgreSQL.
You can set it up to communicate with
it across the network if you want to.
And the ARD helper and VNC server
on the task server work the
same way they do on the client.
Okay, preferences.
What are the important preference
files and what are these files contain?
There's tons of preference
files in Remote Desktop.
In fact,
I often forget how many there are and
I have to dig around and rediscover them.
But I'll go through what some of
the important ones are and why
it is you might be interested in
knowing a little bit about them.
Okay, first one is the preference file
for Remote Desktop.app itself.
This lives in your own library
preferences directory inside
whatever account it is you're
running Remote Desktop.
And the reason you might want to
know about this is because some of
these things are things that you,
if you want to transfer your preferences
to another admin on another machine,
if you've gone to the trouble of setting
up lots of computers and lists and
scanners and save tasks and you don't
want to have to duplicate that work,
you can take a look at
this preference file,
copy out the values assigned
to some of these keys and move
them over to the other machine.
Now, in the case of computers,
your passwords are
stored in the key chain.
They're not going to follow with
you when you bring that stuff over,
so you're going to have
to re-authenticate,
but that you can do a multi-get info
and type in the password as long as
you don't have a different username
and password for each machine.
Now, the main preference file for
the agent is ardagent.plist.
This is a global one.
It lives in slash library preferences.
Now, these particular preferences that
I have up here are the ones that
are specific to the agent when it is
running in the role of the client.
Because remember I said
it runs on the admin,
it runs on the task server,
it runs on the client.
In each case, it has a different role.
In this case, these preferences are
for the client side.
There are other preferences
that the agent uses that
are located in other places.
Like, for instance,
when it's acting as a task server,
there's some root readers that
are located in the client side.
But it only preferences
in another location.
Now, the one that is probably of,
might be of greatest
interest to most of you,
well, actually, there's a couple that are
pretty interesting here.
But one is ardagent log level.
And if you are trying to debug
an issue with Remote Desktop,
if things are just not behaving
right and you'd want to get
a little more information,
you can set this log level higher.
Right now, it's set to three.
You can set it all the way up to seven,
get maximum logging.
You restart the agent and
you look in system.log and
you'll see all kinds of stuff.
And the cache policies,
when you set up a reporting policy,
on a client using the admin,
an array of those policies is
located inside of this file.
So you can go and double check
that everything looks good
on that side if you want to.
And it's also useful for debugging
in a situation I'm going to
talk about a little bit later.
Okay, hidden prefs.
There aren't a lot of them,
but some of them are going to be useful.
I'm not going to talk about all of
them here because I'm going to be at
the 2 o'clock session this afternoon.
So don't go ahead and try to
write them all down right now.
Come and see me.
I'll have this stuff for you
there and you can copy it down.
But basically,
there's some prefs to control your
transition and multi-observer if
you want to play around with that.
Show the short name instead of the
long name inside of the computer list.
And then there's some preferences
that affect control screen,
the VNC server part of it,
as well as some things relating to
file copying with multicast and so on.
Okay, lines of communication.
So I'm going to talk about
Who communicates with who
and what they communicate?
Or what protocols they're using, sorry.
So here's the basic diagram
for Apple Remote Desktop.
You've got your administrator,
your client, and your task server.
And there's all kinds of communication
going on constantly between them.
I mean, not that it's chatty,
but they're always communicating.
So with the administrator console,
when it talks to the client,
for instance,
it communicates over UDP port 3283.
Also on the task server,
since that agent acts
as a client as well,
it communicates over 3283
UDP with that as well.
But it also has a persistent connection,
a TCP connection to the task server.
So when you launch your admin,
your task server is out
there on a separate machine,
it's always connected.
Now the task server also communicates
with clients over port 3283 UDP.
So it's not just a TCP and TCP.
Whenever the client is in
the middle of receiving
information from the task server,
like an install packet,
it does that over a TCP connection.
Now when your Remote Desktop.app
is doing a screen control,
it communicates with the
Apple VNC server on the client.
It does so over TCP port 5900 and 21.
Now 21 is the SSH port,
and that's the one that's going
to be used if you're doing
an encrypted control screen.
Now it's the case that
always the command,
the mouse gestures and the keyboard
characters are always encrypted,
but if you want to additionally
encrypt the screen data,
that's when port 21 gets used.
Now when you do a share screen,
we share the screen
in a multicast manner.
And so that's done from the
Apple VNC server on the admin
machine to an application called
ARD Force Viewer on the client machine.
So that's actually an app that gets
launched and is what displays the admin
screen on each of the client machines.
And so that gets its
communication over port 5900.
So the reason this stuff is
important to know is if you're
going to be setting up firewalls,
you want to make sure that you've
got the right kinds of ports open.
And we're going to talk a little
bit about firewalls later.
Actually,
we're coming up to it real soon here.
So network design.
What are the common issues and how
should your network be configured?
Now, when I talk about our kind of remote
desktop's ideal network configuration,
this may not be something that's
going to be totally practical
for in your organization,
but at least it's going to give
you an idea as to what ARG's
basic network requirements are.
So common issues: firewalls, NAT routers,
multi-homing and just
multicast configuration.
So starting with firewalls, you know,
firewalls can be in lots of different
places in your organization.
They can be on your admin side,
on the host side.
It can be inside of your switch or your
router or it can be on your client side.
So the thing to keep
in mind is that when,
if you do have issues,
make sure that these ports and
these other requirements are
met so that on your switches,
for instance, you allow broadcast.
Broadcast is needed for upgrade client.
If you turn off broadcast,
you're not going to be able,
you're not going to be successful at
upgrading your clients over the network.
Multicast is needed for file
copying on the local network.
It does that in order to reduce the
amount of bandwidth that's used.
Ping, the scanner,
the local scanner and the range scanners,
the first thing they send out
is an ICMP packet in order to
try to find these machines.
If it's successful,
then it communicates with them
in report 3283 to try to get more
Apple Remote Desktop specific
information.
So if Ping is disabled,
you're not going to be able to find them.
And one thing to keep in mind is
that it's easy to accidentally
disable Ping because in the network
control panel or under sharing,
I think under firewall,
there's a stealth mode option.
You turn that on,
that actually turns off ICMP.
It doesn't say that,
but that's the net effect.
So make sure that that's not
turned on in your client machines.
Thank you.
Also, your internet service provider may
also have a firewall that's preventing
certain traffic like UDP packets,
for instance,
from getting back and forth.
Now,
one of the symptoms that you might see
if you've got a firewall issue and UDP,
for instance,
which is critical to Remote Desktop,
is blocked,
is that you may see a machine show up
that just says VNC only or VNC on instead
of actually seeing the nice blue computer
with all the status that you're used to.
And the reason you see this is
because when Remote Desktop app
is trying to find these clients,
the first thing it does is it tries to
send out a packet of 3283 to communicate.
And if that isn't successful,
it tries to do a VNC connection
on 5900 because for all it knows,
it may be a PC that
it's communicating with.
So if you know that A or D,
the agent is up and running on a
client and you're seeing B and C,
then think about checking your firewall
settings and make sure you don't have an
issue between your admin and your client.
So NAT routers.
NAT routers are more or less a no-go for
Remote Desktop because all the clients
on the LAN side of your router show
up as one address to Remote Desktop.
So it's not going to be able
to successfully administer
all those machines.
So in order to deal with that,
there's a couple options.
One is port forwarding and one is VPN.
If you want to go the
port forwarding route,
make sure you've forwarded all the
necessary ports and do that to a
machine that you're going to run a
second copy of Apple Remote Desktop on.
That way you can do a control
session to Remote Desktop running
from the WAN side into the LAN side
and that RemoteDesktop.app can
then see all the machines that
are on the LAN side of the NAT.
And VPN will also work for you as well.
If you can VPN into the
LAN side of that NAT,
that's going to give your administrator
machine an IP address that's going
to appear to be on that same network.
Then you can use this remote
desktop from your administrator
console to see all these machines.
This is how when I go home,
I VPN into work and I'm on the
same network as I would be if
I was at Apple and I can control
all the machines from home.
Okay, multi-homing.
This is a mid-limitation
of Apple Remote Desktop.
It does not handle
multi-homed clients very well,
mainly if the two different networks
or all the different networks
that your interfaces are on can
end up routing back to the same
network that your client is on.
And what happens from the client
perspective is that the admin sends
out a packet over 3283 and it doesn't
know down at the networking level which
interfaces it's going to go out of.
It's beyond its control.
It's beyond the control of any
network app what port this stuff
is going to ultimately get out
of if your app is written as a
well-behaved network application.
So it may be at one point that
the client receives a UDP packet
from what looks like 20.001.
And in another case,
it'll receive maybe the
next packet from 10.001.
But the client, when the administrator
authenticates to it,
now has a session going with the
administrator and it's expecting all
packets to come from one address.
It's not expecting this kind
of flip-flopping of addresses
as data is sent to it.
And particularly for copy items,
it's really bad.
So if you're kind of
getting sketchy status like,
oh, I got status from the machine
when I first started up,
but then it kind of went
away after a minute.
And you know that your machine
has multiple interfaces going,
you might want to consider turning
off one of those interfaces or making
sure that both those interfaces
can't route back to the same
network that your clients are on.
And in this case, in this example,
it's real easy to end up doing
that because a lot of machines
have both Ethernet and AirPort.
And a lot of times when I'm at work,
I'm plugged into both and I control a
machine and I might have issues with it.
Okay, multicast configuration.
Basically just make sure in order to
support file copy on your local area
network that if you've got switches,
make sure that it's enabled.
And in some cases,
some switches or routers
support bandwidth limiting,
so just make sure that whatever
bandwidth limiting you want to use,
just make sure it's appropriate
and relatively high in order to
support efficient transfer of data
when you're sending out copy items.
Okay,
so basically in summary of all this,
what we recommend is to
have a nice switch network.
So because we're using a lot of UDP,
you don't end up with
too many retransmissions.
Make sure that your firewall
settings are correct.
If you're using multi-homing,
make sure there aren't multiple,
no routes between your
multi-homed interfaces.
Use smaller subnets and ideally
an administrator console
and task server per subnet.
But I know for some of you that's
not particularly realistic.
So in a larger kind of
network environment,
you could have a router,
you can have an administrator,
one single administrator that can then,
on one subnet,
that can then control an administrator
on each of your other subnets.
And for instance, in copy items,
if you've got dozens
and dozens of subnets,
if you,
from let's say the administrator here,
1003.1, the guy at the top,
if you do a copy items out to all
the different machines on each,
to those subnets,
it's going to do it in a unicast manner.
And so it's going to take a long
time for that data to get out.
If instead you have an administrator
on each of those networks,
you can either do a control
screen to each of those different
administrators and from there
kick off your copy items task and
that'll do it in a multicast manner.
Or through Apple script,
you could actually script something
that would allow you to send from
your administrator the items that
you want to copy to the administrator
machine on each of those subnets.
And then from there,
automatically kick off a second
copy items task on each of those
subnets that will then distribute
the data to the rest of the machines.
And so it can happen from your
perspective relatively automatically,
a fairly easy thing to do.
Okay, so I'm going to bring
up someone to assist me,
Adam Eath, who's one of the engineers
on Apple Remote Desktop,
to help me demo some of these
features and talk about basically
how we think they should be used.
I think this works.
Hello?
All right.
Okay.
Let this Apple script run.
Boy, that's speedy.
There we go.
So when you have a brand new
Apple Remote Desktop and you launch it,
after you get through the setup,
the first thing that comes up
is the scanner window here.
And so one of the things
I want to point out is how does
Apple Remote Desktop come up with the,
you know,
how does it fill in the computer name?
The first thing it does is
when it scans the network,
it gets a response back from the machine.
The only thing it knows
about is the IP address,
and that's the first thing
that goes in the name field.
Then a lot of stuff happens
like in a split second,
so you never actually
get to see this going on.
But I'm going to tell you what
happens behind the scenes.
Next, it does a reverse lookup on the
name and tries to get your DNS name.
So if you have a really slow DNS server,
which some people do,
that can actually sort
of bog this thing down.
Once it gets the DNS name,
simultaneously with that,
it's also sending out the packet over
3283 to communicate with the clients.
And once it does that,
it gets back to the
computer sharing name.
And that's what it ultimately puts
or tries to put into the name field.
I don't know if you could
just... If you could just widen
the screen a little bit more,
I'm going to show them the network field.
Okay, so there's sometimes there's
some confusion as to exactly
what do these values mean inside
of the network interface field.
This is the network interface
on your computer from which
you are seeing these clients.
So you see the one on the bottom,
the ARD administrator machine
says this computer because it's
just looking through the loopback
device and finding this machine.
In the case of the other clients that
it's seeing on that rack over there,
it's communicating with all
those via its built-in Ethernet.
And if you look up at the top where
in the little search bubble it just
says searching built-in Ethernet.
And Adam, if you kind of go over
that for just a second,
there'll be a tool tip that'll come up
and it'll tell you what the range is.
So if you just hover over the where
it says searching colon built-in
Ethernet next to the local network.
Got that.
So that tells you what
Remote Desktop thinks is
your local subnet range.
Okay, so Adam selected several machines
and dragged them to the all
computers list and this brings
down the add computer dialog.
So when you add multiple machines,
in fact when you add any machine,
it's going to add them by IP address.
Even though it shows you the
DNS name for this first machine here,
it's only going to store that
for informational purposes only,
but it's not going to use it in the
future to try to resolve the machine.
And the reason is that,
the reason we chose to do it this way
is because a lot of people use DHCP.
And so in that case,
storing that DNS name as a way to
forward look up the address to find
the machine later on is generally
not going to be very reliable.
It's not going to be any more reliable
than just storing the IP address.
So we opt just to store the IP address
in this case and just kind of
skip the step of looking it up.
So go ahead and add those machines.
So you can get info on
one of these machines.
Okay, so as I mentioned before,
the primary lookup in this
particular case is the IP address.
Now,
if you edit this and you clear out the
IP address field and just hit done,
that's going to then change how
Remote Desktop looks up this machine.
This says, okay,
I really want to look this
thing up by the DNS name.
So from this point on,
what's going to happen is that
when you launch Remote Desktop,
the first thing it's going to try
to do is it's going to use the last
known IP address because it may get
lucky the machine may still be there.
If that doesn't work,
it's going to resolve the DNS name and if
it resolves to something different than
the IP address that it was last known at,
then it's going to try the new
IP address and hopefully the
machine will be found there.
So, a lot of people when they're
setting up their network,
they end up with a lot
of different scanners.
They set up scanners for each of
their subnets because that's how
they go find their machines and
that's kind of where it ends.
They then use those scanners from
that point on to actually organize
their machines and go to those lists
and that's not the most effective way
to use your remote desktop because
you're doing a lot of unnecessary
scanning of the network in that case.
So,
we're going to talk about using lists for
these machines in just a minute as the
way that you really should be organizing
your computers once you've found them.
Now, another reason that people tend to
stick with scanners is because they
feel like they've kind of been burned
with machines that have disappeared
and they've got to keep on re-scanning
for them in order to find them,
so why not just keep
on using the scanners?
One particular instance of that
is an IP address will go to 0000
and it's confusing as to why.
And it's confusing as
to why that happens.
But the reason that that happens
is that especially in a case where
you've got DHCP for your clients
is that another machine on your
network has actually taken the
IP address of a previous machine,
the machine that went to 0000.
So, let's say machine A had an
address but it went to 0.
Some other machine,
machine B for instance,
comes up and has that address
and remote desktop sees that.
From its perspective,
it knows for a fact.
That A no longer has this address.
So, it goes ahead and clears it out
and that's why you see that.
Now, if your remote desktop that
app is not running at the time
when this address changes,
that's what happens.
And that's why if you are
experiencing this problem,
it's really a good idea to have a
separate task server because in addition
to taking the load off the admin as
far as doing install package tasks,
it also will constantly track
DHCP changes on your clients.
Or just to give you a
little bit of a hint,
if you're using a remote desktop
that's not running at the time
when this address changes,
that's what happens.
And that's why if you are
experiencing this problem,
it's really a good idea to have a
separate task server because in addition
to taking the load off the admin as
far as doing install package tasks,
it also will constantly track
DHCP changes on your clients.
Or just when clients just move
from one network to another,
your clients know about the task server.
And when they start up,
the very first thing they
do is they check in with the
task server and they say,
"Hey, here I am.
And by the way,
here's my IP address." And the
task server makes a note of that.
And the next time your admin comes up,
the first thing it does is it syncs with
the task server to make sure that it
knows what all the current addresses are
as far as the task server is concerned.
And it's a really great way to
avoid having a situation where
machines are changing IP addresses
and your administrators are all
going to be doing the same thing.
So if your administrator is offline,
next time he goes up,
someone else has stolen somebody
else's address and Rope Desktop doesn't
know what to do with the guy who
used to have that address because
he's not around anymore and he's
not communicating with the admin.
Okay, so let's take a look at,
assuming you've got yourself set
up with a remote task server,
what the best way is then to organize
these machines and in my opinion is
to use a feature called Smart Lists.
And so let's say you have,
let's say you have a remote
task server and you're
So,
if you have a bunch of different subnets
and you've got the machines named a
certain way in each of the subnets
or you've got an IP address range,
you can set up your smart list
to just filter down on those
machines that match that criteria.
So, if one subnet is 10.0.0 or in 10.0.1,
you can set up a smart list that's
going to have just those machines in it.
In this case,
Adam's doing it by name here.
And if you hit OK,
There's no machines because they have
no machines because we've got to change.
We're going to go ahead and change
the name on these machines so that
they're going to match with the
criteria for that smart list and
they're going to show up in there.
Bam.
So now they show up
inside that smart list.
All right,
I think that's probably a good enough
demo for basically the smart list.
So let's review what it is,
what we just talked about here.
If we can switch back to this.
So scanners primarily use them for
finding machines and for adding them.
Use your smart list, not your scanners,
for organizing your
clients after the fact.
Use the task server to track
IP address changes on your clients.
Client IPs change to zero for a reason,
as I explained.
And you really should be using
scanners as a last resort to
find machines that you've lost.
Really the thing you should be
doing is setting up a task server.
But I certainly understand if
you don't have that set up,
scanners are a good way to fall back
and try to relocate your machines again.
Okay, so let's do a little demo
of the task server here.
So in this case,
we've got on this rack here a
remote task server already set up.
This is a machine that has a second
Apple Remote Desktop license,
and we're going to configure
our admin to use that machine.
I think it's just www.dc-ard-9.
OK.
WMDs.
Does that look good?
That looks good.
So in this case,
it's asking for the username and password
because we have to authenticate to it.
Now, in addition to setting up,
if you've already got your remote
task server set up and you can
do it at startup like that,
you can also do it after the fact if
you set up your task server later.
If you go to preferences and
go to the task server tab,
you can see what your
task server settings are.
In this case,
it shows you that we've got a
remote task server set up here.
Okay, so we're going to go ahead and
add a few more machines here.
And so,
let's see if there's anything else.
So here, when we add these machines,
The administrator is going to tell
the task server about these machines
so that it's going to be able to
track all the changes for you.
And we're going to,
I think we want to put maybe a
couple of them to sleep to kind
of demonstrate that when you're
using the task server for a task,
like install a package for instance,
it doesn't matter whether or
not the clients are asleep.
This is one of the things that the
task server is going to handle for
you is making sure that the task gets
done on those machines that are not
online at the time the task is started.
So they can come on,
they can start up later on,
and then when they check
in with the task server,
the task server is going to tell them,
hey, I've actually got
something for you to do.
I've got an install
package for you to perform.
So in this case, Adam's going to pick
that package right there.
He's going to select using
the remote task server.
And we're going to put a little
bandwidth limit here just to make
the thing go a little bit slower.
Now, when we kick this off,
another thing too is that in addition
to the task server communicating with
the clients and syncing up with them,
it also syncs up with the admin.
So as soon as we kick off this task,
once the package actually gets
sent down to the task server,
we can go ahead and quit the admin.
We don't even have to
hang around anymore.
We could shut the machine down.
So go ahead and do that.
And right now,
it says that it's sending it over there.
So now the package has
actually got there.
Adam can go ahead and
quit remote desktop.
And we can sort of just
hang out for a moment here.
And you can go ahead and
fire up remote desktop again.
And it'll either be in the middle
of installing the package to
those machines that were online
or maybe have already succeeded.
did.
Hope this works.
So we're gonna go ahead and wake up
those machines that were offline.
And once they wake up,
they're going to check
in with the task server.
And once they become available,
the task server is going to
go ahead and start installing
the package on those machines.
So as you can see, it's kicking off the
install on those guys.
I'm not exactly sure what's up
with number four and five there,
but those are the guys
that were online before?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's unusual.
Why don't you try restarting those guys
and see if... These are all Intel iMacs,
so they should restart
pretty quickly here.
There we go.
So as I mentioned before,
when they start up,
they should be checking
in with their task server.
And hopefully the task server knows
that they've got something to do.
So right now you can see that
in the current status column,
they say that they're
inactive once they start up.
That should change.
And hopefully if we're lucky here, hey,
there we go.
So it eventually figured out
what it is that it needed to do.
Hooray!
It works.
It does work.
Okay, so let's look at in summary what
it is that we just saw there.
So the task server
requires its own license.
When you set up the task
server remote machine,
launch Remote Desktop just
once to configure access.
There's a preference that
says allow other machines to
use this as a task server.
You want to check that.
After that, you can quit the admin.
You don't have to keep Remote Desktop,
that app, running on your task server.
You don't have to add the same
machines that you're adding to
your other admins to that machine.
The admin that's using that
task server is going to go ahead
and take care of that for you.
The task server distributes
its data in a unicast manner,
so it does, for any task,
up to 10 machines simultaneously,
so it's not going to try
to overload your network.
And as machines finish,
other machines are going to be started.
The task server is going to keep
retrying the job until it can get done.
So if the machine sleeps or
crashes or gets shut down
in the middle of an install,
the task server will make sure
that eventually it gets done.
You can use bandwidth throttling to
limit how fast you send stuff out.
The bandwidth throttling
applies everywhere.
It applies to your administrator
talking to your task server.
It applies to your task server
talking to your clients.
And the best use of the task server
for install packages is when the
machines are actually not online.
If they're all online,
and especially if they're local,
it's probably better to not use the task
server and just do the immediate mode
because it's going to be faster for you,
unless you really need to close the
thing down and go do something else.
Okay, so lastly,
we're going to do a reporting demo.
So basically we're going to set
up our remote task server again.
So this machine is going to receive
all the caches from the clients.
When they get generated,
it's going to store those.
Okay, so when you're setting up a
remote desktop for the first time,
some of you have probably come
across this setup pane here.
And this is for setting a
default reporting policy.
This is a policy that's going to tell the
clients what caches that you want built.
And it gets applied to these
machines as soon as you add
the machines to your computer.
This is not going to overwrite the
policy of any existing machines
that you've got out there.
When we set this up,
we had a problem with the
original remote desktop.
We had a feeling that a lot of
people didn't really get about
setting up these report policies.
And so we kind of put this in
here to make sure that this was
kind of right in your face and you
saw it and you thought about it.
I think we've sort of got the
converse problem now where everyone
has reporting policies set up.
And if you've got multiple administrators
managing the same machines,
every administrator is shoving
their policy down this machine.
So this was really kind of
intended for the single-player.
This is a real admin case where
one administrator was managing a
set of machines and not multiple.
If you're in an environment where
there are several administrators
all managing the same machines,
you probably don't
really want this set up.
You should probably uncheck this
and go ahead and just one person
should be responsible for setting
these policies or at least coordinate
between people when you're setting
up these reporting policies.
And before when I was showing you the
preferences for ARD Agent and I said,
"Here you can look to see what reporting
policies are set up." If you think you've
got a situation where now that you've
heard what I've said here about this,
where several of your admins are all
sending their reporting policies down.
And keep in mind,
these things do not overwrite each other.
They just get added on there because
each one is a separate admin.
You can check that preferences
file and see whether or not that's
actually the case because there'll
be an entry for each that's keyed
by the Ethernet zero address.
And check in there and you'll be
able to see whether or not you've
got multiple admins putting these
reporting policies down and you'll
be able to hopefully relatively easy
identify who it is in your organization
that's putting these policies in
there that you don't want because
their EN zero address is in there.
So okay,
let's go ahead and kick this up here.
So go ahead and add some machines.
So here we've got the checkbox that
says apply default data upload schedule.
So when you've got that checked,
this is going to apply that schedule
that we had set when we came in.
Now, the times that are set for that are
basically seven days a week at midnight.
That's the default.
You don't see that stuff,
but that's what it's set to.
And we can go ahead and
review that in just a minute.
So we're going to add
these guys here like this.
Now, we're going to add a few more,
but we're going to turn off that
checkbox so we can see what it looks
like when they're not set and then
talk about how to add them manually.
Okay, so go ahead and do a get info
on one of those machines.
We'll take a look at
the data settings here.
So go ahead and click "Edit" here.
So here's kind of the big pain
where all of these settings
are set for your cache policy.
And so this is what a
default one looks like.
Now, for those of you who are upgrading
from 2.0 and you already had
your reporting policy set,
one of the new things
in Remote Desktop is app
usage and user accounting.
Those things are not
getting set by default.
So you need to actually go
and select all your machines,
do a "Get Info" on all
of them simultaneously,
and you can edit the schedule
information for all of them at once.
And you want to turn on those top two,
the ones that say "Collect
Application Usage" and "Collect
User Accounting." So in this case,
Adam selected some that
have kind of a mixed result.
So if he were to check over those things,
that's then going to
go ahead and do that.
And if he applies this now,
it's going to push those down.
Now, another thing is when I talked about
multiple administrators putting
their cache policies on an agent,
it's not enough just to go into
that agent and manually edit the
P-List and pull out the cache
policies that you don't want.
Because each time that agent is
authenticated to by the admin,
the admin re-pushes down
its reporting policy.
So you really need to resolve
the problem at the heart of it
and go to the administrator.
So you can go to the administrator
console that may have one
of these default policies
set up and turn that off.
If we can just go back to preferences,
the main app preferences
for just a second.
and go to the task server.
So down at the bottom there,
looking slightly different
than that other pane,
is this is the default information.
This is where you would go to change that
same default information that you got
set up when you started up the program.
So here's where you want to go
to if you think you have another
admin that's set up with this
stuff and turn this stuff off.
It's enough just to uncheck those
check boxes on the front part.
You don't have to go
into here to do that.
Okay.
So some folks have some problems
with app usage and user accounting
because they go and they,
well, either because that stuff isn't set
up and nothing has been collected
or they just want to try it out
and they've picked a machine,
they know they've enabled this on
it and they go and they launch an
app and then they run the report
and nothing shows up in the report.
There's a couple of
reasons that might happen.
One is that if you go ahead and
bring up an app usage report there,
you notice that the end
date is the day before.
It's not today.
So that might be one reason
why you're not seeing anything.
The other is that...
The app itself needs to have
some kind of closing event on it.
So when you launch an application,
nothing has been written yet to disk.
We don't record that event as, okay,
this app has launched.
You have to switch out of it
or quit it or log into another
account and then we'll record that.
And after that event happens,
if you go ahead and run the report
and you click rebuild data for report,
you'll be able to see that event happen.
So I think we've got, yeah, okay,
so we've got some of this stuff
actually stored there now and you can
see that we've got some of the amount
of time that the app was front most,
the total amount of time that it ran,
who ran it and what state it's in,
whether it's quit or in the
case if it was running and
being switched in and out,
whether or not it's still
running and what the processes
are in the computer and so on.
All right, I think you want to do a user
accounting one real quick too,
just to show that one off.
Okay, so we see which user is logged in,
how long they're logged in, and from...
and others have been involved in the
development of Apple Remote Desktop.
The latest version of
Apple Remote Desktop is a powerful
system management platform.
Find out how to put these features
to use in different environments.
So the default policy, again,
intended for a single administrator.
You can change the policy on
any client using Get Info.
Those policies get sent back down
again every time you authenticate.
It also gets sent down at exactly
that moment when you change it.
And look in ARD Agent Preferences
for the cache policies.
And upgrading,
when you upgrade from 2x to 3o,
that requires that you actually turn on
that user accounting and reporting stuff.
Next,
we're going to actually have more demos,
but these ones are fun demos,
unlike these somewhat academic ones.
And Steve Hayman is going
to take care of that.
Adam, thank you very much for
your help with that.
We appreciate it.
I'd like to say a special hi to
all the Canadians in the crowd,
all the Canadians in the crowd.
Once again, WWDC is on a week when there
was a Canadian holiday.
Monday was, of course,
Canadian Thanksgiving.
It's coming a little
earlier than it used to.
Global warming.
Anyway, I...
I was talking with the ARD engineers
over here and I said I thought I had
some fun demos and they claimed that
ARD was not in fact a fun program.
Well, of course it's a fun program
because any application that
has scripting is a fun program.
And any application that lets you
do something stupid on not just
your own computer but on nine other
computers or perhaps 500 computers is
by definition kind of a fun program.
So I want to talk a little bit
about the scripting and automator
features that are in Remote Desktop.
One of the nice things about this is
that I can dream up my own additional
features now for Apple Remote Desktop and
implement them myself and I don't
have to bother these guys.
So here is one simple
example of something a lot of
people would probably like.
I've got a list of,
can I say by the way how much fun
it is to be sitting down there
waiting for your demo watching the
previous guy renaming the computers.
You're going, oh my god.
So, crossing our fingers here.
Here's a little Apple script.
This is a remote desktop Apple script.
If we look in script editor in
the dictionary for remote desktop,
You can see some of what's available.
There's a whole suite here of different
tasks you can create and different
objects such as computers and computer
lists and you can send them messages
and you can make up your own tasks on
the fly and create scripts and automated
actions and Cocoa applications that tell
Remote Desktop to go and do something.
So here's a simple example.
This is a script that's going to tell
Remote Desktop to look up the selected
computers and then tell Terminal to
launch an SSH session to each one.
I'm a command line,
terminal-oriented kind of guy here,
so I would find it convenient,
and in fact, this actually was a feature
that I asked the team for.
Could we not have an easy way
to let me start a new Terminal
SSH session to the selected computers?
Well, I don't need to wait for them.
I can come over here and
select a bunch of computers,
and I've arranged to have this particular
script in my script menu already.
I thought I had.
Well, we'll just run it from here.
If we run this,
this will actually ask Terminal to
open a new window with an SSH session
to each of the nine computers.
So I think for a lot of admins,
this is a script they've already written.
Once they found that Remote Desktop had
this ability to determine,
to allow you to determine
the selected computers,
and knowing that Terminal has the ability
to launch a new command to a new machine,
you can combine these two things.
Really interesting.
Scripting is this sort of order
N squared process where it gets
much more interesting depending
on how many more applications you
can roll into the same script.
So that's a pretty easy one that
I think a lot of administrators
would find to be very handy.
Now, because we've got scripting,
we've also got the ability to
create our own automator workflows
that talk to Apple Remote Desktop.
Remote Desktop ships with something
like 30 automator actions.
There are a bunch more you can get.
If you go to automator.us.
slash ARD,
you can find another 30 actions.
I think I've got all of those in here.
But there are simple actions that will
get the currently selected computers,
that will ask them all to
open a particular application,
or to empty the trash, or to restart.
And you can build your own
little mini applications in
Automator like this right away.
Let me start with find
Remote Desktop items.
We're going to find,
I've got a computer list called
WWDC that's referring to those
nine computers over there.
And then I just want to be
able to lock all the screens.
So this is a very, very simple.
Workflow.
Find a computer list,
lock all the screens with
a particular message.
And if we run this little workflow,
I can't see the screen,
so I'm desperately hoping
that they will all lock.
Have they in fact locked.
[Transcript missing]
That's a good one.
Hang on.
You know what I'm going to do?
I had this idea here.
I'm going to take the opportunity
to have a drink of water right now
before I get on the plane tomorrow.
Yeah.
[Transcript missing]
How are we doing over there, Bruce?
We're back?
They're booting.
That's great.
Bruce is going to give them
the big thumbs up over there.
Bruce, you've got a speaker badge for
this show just so you could,
and all you're doing is basically
sitting there and telling
me what's on those screens,
right?
Okay.
In fact,
let me open a little multi-observe
window here so we can all see
what's on those nine computers.
Well, I want to show you a couple
other variations on workflows
and automator ideas.
Here's one that--
actually is a sequence of several
actions involving Keynote and
Automator and Remote Desktop.
What we're going to do here is build
a new Keynote presentation on the fly.
Keynote has some Automator actions
that can create a new slide.
We're going to use an Automator action
that talks to Remote Desktop that
tells all nine of these machines
to pop up a simple question and
answer dialogue on the screen.
The students from my class over here
are going to vote on the questions.
The data is going to flow
into the final action,
which is going to use Keynote to
create a pie chart of the results.
Fingers crossed.
Are you ready?
Because I'm going to do this.
Yep.
Here we go.
The interesting one is one
I wrote down here in the middle.
Ask a question and I will set it so
that it shows the action when run.
So what's your question?
What is your favorite CFL team?
Fingers crossed.
Are you ready?
Because I'm going to do this.
Yep.
Here we go.
The interesting one is one
I wrote down here in the middle.
Ask a question and I will set it so
that it shows the action when run.
So what's your question?
What is your favorite CFL team?
It is fun.
See, Remote Desktop is fun.
Here, it is fun.
Except when you try to unlock the screen.
So that part's not as much fun.
Well, I want to do one last thing here.
Let me just cross my fingers here
and hope that this is going to work.
Give me one second here.
I'm not always in front of my computer,
but I have a cell phone.
I have a cell phone with
Bluetooth and I have Sol and
Clicker on this cell phone.
Sol and Clicker,
there are a few tools like this.
I like Sol and Clicker.
It executes Apple scripts
in response to phone events.
And I have a menu on here
that I've set up called ARD.
And in my ARD menu,
I can ask all nine of those machines
to display their IP address.
Oh, I'll put up the big window.
Yep.
If you can't, I'll see it.
Thank you, Bruce.
I would like all nine of these machines,
me clicking on the phone,
to display their IP address.
How full is the disk?
OK.
Show me the host name.
The machine name got changed,
but not the host name.
Show me the host name.
And we spent an awful lot of money
to have a mixer over here to take
the audio output from these nine
machines just so that I can do this.
Say the host name.
Welcome to WWDC from WWDC ARD Summit.
Hey!
How much did that mixer cost
just for this bit right here?
This, what I'm doing here is kind of
a commercial for a session we're
doing tomorrow on automating
Apple Remote Desktop at 9 o'clock.
If you want to come to that session,
I'll explain exactly
what's going on here.
But I think you'll find that a few
simple little scripts can make Automator
and Remote Desktop work together.
I got one more I just thought of.
Dangerous.
Well,
you made the mistake of finishing early.
That was your problem.
You went too fast here.
Let's just see here.
Is there any reason this
is not going to work?
Let's see here.
Yeah, there's a Sudoku puzzle
on all nine computers.
Alright, that's just a brief look at
what you can do with scripting.
I'm so glad that they put that feature
into Remote Desktop because that keeps,
A, it keeps me off their case.
B, it means I can go off and
implement my own features,
either as saved tasks,
automated workflows,
even custom Cocoa applications.
So if you can,
come to tomorrow morning's session
and we'll go into great detail on
how a lot of this is actually done.